Hanami ships with various **generators** to save on typing some of the code involved in adding new functionality. In our terminal, enter:
    
    
    % bundle exec hanami generate action web books#index
    

This will generate a new action _index_ in the _books_ controller of the _web_ application. It gives us an empty action, view and template; it also adds a default route to `apps/web/config/routes.rb`:
    
    
    get '/books', to: 'books#index'
    

If you're using ZSH, you may get `zsh: no matches found: books#index`. In that case, you can use: ` % hanami generate action web books/index `

To make our test pass, we need to edit our newly generated template file in `apps/web/templates/books/index.html.erb`:
    
    
    
Bookshelf

    
All books

    
    

      

        
Patterns of Enterprise Application Architecture

        
by Martin Fowler


      

    
      

        
Test Driven Development

        
by Kent Beck


      

    

    

Save your changes and see your tests pass! The output will also contain a skipped test. This is due to an autogenerated test in `spec/web/views/books/index_spec.rb`.

The terminology of controllers and actions might be confusing, so let's clear this up: actions form the basis of our Hanami applications; controllers are mere modules that group several actions together. So while the "controller" is _conceptually_ present in our project, in practice we only deal with actions.

We've used a generator to create a new endpoint in our application. But one thing you may have noticed is that our new template contains the same `
` as our `home/index.html.erb` template. Let's fix that.
